Solves: Set of terms from 17th March #10 (#12)
prathamesh-sonpatki/o11y-wiki: README.md

long words by substituting middle letters with the number of middle letters
instead. Like, a11y stands for accessibility.

### OpenMetrics

OpenMetrics is a standard for collecting and transmitting metrics data, developed by Prometheus and other contributors. It provides a common format for metrics that can be used across multiple monitoring systems.

### OpenCensus

OpenCensus is an open-source library for collecting and exporting metrics and traces data from applications. It supports multiple languages and can be integrated with various monitoring and analysis tools.

### OpenTelemetry

> OpenTelemetry is a set of open-source libraries and tools for collecting, processing, and exporting telemetry data from applications. It provides a vendor-neutral, standard way of collecting observability data and can be integrated with various systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[OpenTelemetry](https://opentelemetry.io/) is a set of open-source libraries and tools for collecting, processing, and exporting telemetry data from applications. It provides a vendor-neutral, standard way of collecting observability data and can be integrated with various systems.
```

## R

### Runbook

> A runbook is a document that provides step-by-step instructions for executing routine tasks or procedures. Runbooks are used in SRE to standardize and automate common operational procedures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A runbook is a document that provides step-by-step instructions for executing routine tasks or procedures. Runbooks are used to standardize and automate standard operational procedures.
```

Samples are individual data points in a time series. Metrics are collected as samples at regular intervals and are used to analyze the behavior of a system over time. Many time series databases use samples as billing metrics.

### Sampling 

Sampling is the process of collecting a representative subset of data from a larger set. In the context of monitoring systems, sampling can be used to reduce the amount of data that needs to be collected and processed, while still providing meaningful insights.

### Service

> A service is a software component or system that provides a specific set of functions to other applications or users. In SRE, services are monitored and managed to ensure their reliability and availability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A [Service](https://last9.io/blog/services-not-server-observability/) is a software component or system providing specific functions to other applications or users. 
A service can be
- Combination of endpoints that fall under the purview of a payment team.
- A piece of code catering to the Reconciliation workflow.
- A demographic-based Personal Information Collector.
- A data warehouse catering to the API and Billing teams.

Or A combination of all of the above.
```

### Summary

> A summary is a statistical representation of a set of data that shows its distribution and summary statistics, such as mean and variance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A summary is a Prometheus metric type that can be used for that can be used to monitor latencies (or other distributions like request sizes). They are similar to Histograms. However, unlike histograms, they give you the exact quantile values instead of estimates. They work best when you need the same latency value, such as P99, and do not want to avoid going through the hassles of setting histogram buckets.
```

### Sidecar

A sidecar is a container that runs alongside an application container and provides additional functionality, such as monitoring or service discovery. Sidecars can be used to separate cross-cutting concerns and simplify application development.

> ### Statsd

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### StatsD
```

> Statsd is a protocol and tool for collecting and aggregating metrics data from applications. It is often used in conjunction with monitoring systems like Graphite or Prometheus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
StatsD is a daemon for collecting and aggregating metrics data. It is often used in conjunction with monitoring systems like Graphite or Prometheus. StatsD was originally written at [Etsy](http://www.etsy.com/) and released with a [blog post](https://codeascraft.etsy.com/2011/02/15/measure-anything-measure-everything/) about how it works and why we created it.
```

A trace is the complete journey of a request or workflow as it moves from one part of the system to another. It is achieved by adding a standard trace id as the request/action flows through all the hops.

### Tail Sampling

Tail sampling is a technique for collecting metrics data from the slowest requests in a system. This can be useful for understanding the causes of tail latency and identifying performance bottlenecks.

### Tail Latency

> Tail latency refers to the latency of the slowest requests in a system. In SRE, tail latency is an important metric to monitor, as it can have a significant impact on the user experience and overall system performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tail latency refers to the latency of the slowest requests in a system. Tail latency is an important metric to monitor, as it can have a significant impact on the user experience and overall system performance.
```

### Telegraf

> Telegraf is a plugin-driven agent for collecting and reporting metrics data from various sources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Telegraf](https://www.influxdata.com/time-series-platform/telegraf/) is a server-based agent for collecting and sending all metrics and events from various data sources. It provides plugins for input, process, aggregate and output functions of telemetry data.
```
